docs: initial start of the maintainership docs under the bounty program (#1894)
asyncapi/community: docs/maintainership-guide/general-information/program-evaluation/evaluation-process.md

---
title: Evaluation Process
weight: 60
---

Evaluations occur twice during the program duration: at the **midpoint** of the program and the **end** of the program after you submit your final work. Evaluation periods varies for different project and are determined based on project complexity. For a standard 12 weeks project your first evaluation will be at the end of the 6th week and the final evaluation will be after the 12th week of the contributing period. 

> The evaluations are opportunities for both mentors and contributors to evaluate each other and also the program organizers performance. 

Reviewer: Why are the program organizers' performance being evaluated?

The pass or fail decision from an evaluation should not come as a surprise. You and your mentor will already be communicating, and you should be discussing:
- Your project progress
- Contribution quality and deliverables
- Community engagement
- Any blockers or support needed
prior to the evaluation period. 

>_If you aren't getting pre-evaluation feedback from your mentor or contributor, kindly ask for it early and often.

## How Evaluations Work

> Evaluations are a survey that both mentor and contributor fill during the evaluation period. Program organizers have this evaluations questions for both contributor and mentor in advance in the form of a **Google Form**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluations are a survey that both the mentor and the contributor fill out during the evaluation period. Program organizers have these evaluation questions for both the contributor and the mentor in advance in the form of a **Google Form**. 
```

The form takes roughly **10–15 minutes** to fill out and includes questions related to:

 - Scope of project
 - Quality of interaction
 - Skills and responsiveness
 - Program contribution to learning
 - Passing or failing mentor or contributor
 - Quality of program organization

After the evaluation window closes, you’ll receive an email from the organizers with your result — pass or fail.

>_Submitting your evaluation is **mandatory**. Failure to complete it during any phase will result in immediate removal from the program and loss of stipend eligibility._

> Organizers will keep evaluation responses **confidential**, except for specific “Feedback for Mentor” or “Feedback for Contributor” sections, which will be shared accordingly. In rare cases, such as if a contributor fails — more detailed feedback may be disclosed to mentors to ensure transparency around stipend decisions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organizers will keep evaluation responses **confidential**, except for specific “Feedback for Mentor” or “Feedback for Contributor” sections, which will be shared accordingly. In rare cases, such as if a contributor fails, more detailed feedback may be disclosed to mentors to ensure transparency around stipend decisions.
```

## Final Evaluations 

At the end of the AsyncAPI Maintainership term, contributors are required to provide link to the work they've done during the current AM program participation. This includes:

- A link to your project repository or documentation
- A brief description of completed work
- Any unfinished tasks
- Plans for continued contribution

> For projects with multiple contributors, which falls under only **documentation-related project ideas**, stipends are disbursed **only after final evaluations** are completed. This is because:

Reviewer: Based on the past experiences and feedback from 2024 mentors, all stipends should be disbursed once the contributor is done unless in wrong on this? regardless of being docs design or code
